# Analysis-of-Restaurants-in-United-States-using-YELP-Data

Shifting demographics and changing lifestyles are driving the surge in food-service businesses. Busy consumers don’t have the time or inclination to cook. They want tasty, nutritious meals without dishes to wash. More and more singles, working parents and elderly people are demanding greater convenience when it comes to buying their meals. The future looks bright for the food-service industry overall. In order to start understanding what makes a good restaurant, I planned to do a market research analysis of restaurants in United states.

In order to conduct the market analysis, I am making use of the YELP dataset which is a subset of Yelp’s businesses, reviews, and user data.It was originally put together for the Yelp Dataset Challenge to give a chance for students to conduct research or analysis on Yelp’s data and share their discoveries. Below are the proposed approach/analytic technique to conduct the analysis.

Geographical analysis - This analysis is to aid the location selection process and find the best possible place to establish the cafe.The user should be able to select the desired city and see the distribution of restaurants across the location and their ratings. May be it is better to start the restaurant that gives high quality food in a location with large number of low rated restaurants. May be opening a restaurant in a street full of popular restaurants gives good visibility. It all depends on the strategy adopted by the management.

Understanding previous trends - This is to aid the selection of working hours and cuisine for the restaurant. Some places might be suited for restaurants that are open during evening. Some locations might give profit when the restaurant is open through out the day. By analysing at the past trends, we can decide our restaurants best suited working hours. We will also explore the different cuisines that are popular in the locality chosen.

Learning from the best and worst players in the market - Sentiment analysis is done on the user reviews to understand what trends and patterns in user behaviour. Bad reviews help us to learn without making the mistakes by ourselves. Positive reviews can help me understand what works for the general public and incorporate that into my business.
